#summary Instructions how to build/compile Office reader

= Introduction =

Office Reader can be compiled just like any other Symbian OS project, there is nothing special about it. So if you are completly new to Symbian OS, reading some "Getting Started" guides first will help you a lot. Please note that Symbian only support a Windows host for building, but there are some project to get this to run on Linux as well.

= Check out the source = 

svn checkout http://officereader.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ officereader-read-only

= Getting the right SDK =

Before you can compile Office Reader, you have to install the right SDKs.

You have to download(free of charge) and install one of these two, or both of course, depending on your target platform:

  * S60 3rd Edition Maintanance Release: [http://www.forum.nokia.com/info/sw.nokia.com/id/4a7149a5-95a5-4726-913a-3c6f21eb65a5/S60-SDK-0616-3.0-mr.html Forum Nokia]
  * UIQ3 3.0 [http://developer.uiq.com/devtools_uiqsdk.html UIQ]

Please note: later SDK's such as S60 3rd Edition FP X or UIQ3 3.x will work as well, but these builds will then not work on all available phones

= Compiling by command line = 

To compile the project, run this command first to prepare the workspace based on target:

*bldmake bldfiles*

Then either run for emulator build

*ABLD.bat build winscw udeb*

or this one for target device:

*ABLD.bat build gcce urel*


This to commands have to be run in the following folders:

SyExpat/Symbian  // compile SyExpat parser

sheetcontrol/group // compile the sheet engine for ods files

officereader/Engine/group // compile the OpenDocument Engine

officereader/S60_3rd/group // compile application for S60 3rd

or 

officereader/UIQ3/group // compile application for UIQ3


In the top source directory there are also two bat files, which will run these commands for a target device build automatically. These can be easily adapted.

= Running the application =

If you have build for emulator (winscw), you can now simply issue the command

*epoc*

This will start the emulator, Office Reader can be found in the subfolder _Applications_

= IDE's =

Instead of compiling and packagin by command line, you can also use one of the available IDE's which will make your life a little bit easier:

  * Carbide.c++, all editions
  * Microsoft Visual Studio.NET 2003 with Carbide.vs 2.0 plugin
  * Microsoft Visual Studio 2005 with Carbide.vs 3.0 plugin

You just have to import the mmp files into the IDE and compile and build the project there. For additionl information, see the manuals of the corresponding IDEs.